# Project 2 – Traffic Signs Recognition

## Background

There has been lots of hype behind the concept of autonomous vehicles and self-driving cars. In order to fully reach the highest level of safe autonomous driving, the vehicles must be equipped with proper programming to be able to understand and follow all traffic rules.Autonomous vehicle startups that exist today use a combination of machine learning algorithms and sensors to handle the tasks of driving that humans do, such as detecting and understanding objects and making decisions based on that information to safely navigate a lonely road or a crowded highway. Beyond those basics are a variety of approaches, including within artificial intelligence.Traffic sign classification is the process of automatically recognizing traffic signs along the road,including speed limit signs, yield signs, merge signs, etc. Being able to automatically recognize traffic signs enables us to build “smarter cars”.Self-driving cars need traffic sign recognition in order to properly parse and understand the roadway. Similarly, “driver alert” systems inside cars need to understand the roadway around them to help aid and protect drivers.

## Objective

In this project, we aim to build a deep neural network model that will classify traffic signs in images into different categories. We will be using a dataset containing more than 50,000 images of different traffic signs. The dataset will contain a variety of images classified into 43 different classes.Our approach to building this traffic sign classification model is discussed in four steps:Explore the datasetBuild a CNN modelTrain and validate the modelTest the model with test datasetTo classify the images into their respective categories, we will build a CNN model (Convolutional Neural Network). CNN is best for image classification purposes.
